# Contemporary Issues In Data

Welcome! Your writing assignment will be in this file.  See [the instructions](./instructions.md) for more details.

# Microsoft SQL server as a platform for muilding Mission-Critical business solutions 2014
In this document, I discuss two articles about Microsofts' SQL server as a platform for Mission-Critical Business solutions. I present and discuss two opposing views on this important matter.

## Article 1
In SQL Server Pro IdeaXchange's [3 Reasons SQL server s an excellent Platform for Building Mission-Critical Business Solutions?](http://sqlmag.com/sql-server-2014/3-reasons-sql-server-excellent-platform-building-missioncritical-business-solutions), SQL server has been one of the major products offered by Microsoft in the entreprise software category since 2000. In 2014, when the article was published, Microsoft had just released the fifth major iteration of this product with changes that engendered life-cycle costs of managing multiple versions of SQL Server that are supporting a range of mission-critical business systems.

In my opinion, while I can see the benefit of having one ubiquitous product that is supported by a community of people who want to teach and learn the tool (note the 80 worldwide SQLSaturday events mentioned in the article) I also believe that there are disadvantages with this approach, or at least inefficiencies. I do not ignore that outsouring a database management solution is a huge time saver and for many clients, definitely more cost effective than developping and mantaining an in house solution. At the time the article was released, SQL server was an industry-standard ecosystem, and with that status it made it easier to be adopted by the masses since it offered a larger choice of solutions to problems like security, big data and DevOps. 

However, this does not undermine the fact that a huge amout of ressources still needs to be allocated to maintain compatibility between different versions of the product. The article notes that SQL is a very successful prodruct ($5 billion in annual revenue) but it is also very costly to mantain. As a matter of fact, up to 70% of datacenter resources are going to maintenance rather than addressing new business initiatives. This is a non-negligible evidence of inefficiency with the outsourcing approach. What is more, customers are at a disadvantage here because in the case that Microsft decided to raise rates, very few if any client would be in a position to go for an alternative supplier because of the large cost barrier that switching systems represents.


## Article 2
Contrary to the claims made in SQL Server Pro IdeaXchange's piece on the topic, DevProConnections magazine's [Disturbing Problems with SQL Server 2014](http://devproconnections.com/sql-server-2014/disturbing-problems-sql-server-2014) claims that Microsoft offers lackluster support for the developper community of SQL server, and the new licensing practices for the product improves Microsoft's bottom line at the expense of Small Medium Business customers. 

This article explains clearly the fear that I had in my comment to the previous article. Microsoft is at an advantage over its customers because the demand for its product is relatively inelastic. In this case Microsoft decided to change the terms of the licensing of its software, essentially cancelling the ‘buy one, get one free’ type of license which alongside a production license for SQL Server, gave the customer an equal or lesser license to deploy on a standby server that could be used to only handle loads in the case of a disaster. As a consequence, a non-negligeable number of Small Medium business customers who lease SQL servers now face the difficult decision of chossing between purchasing the SQL Server 2014 outright as part of their upgrade plan, leasing 2x licenses instead of 1x
going forward with their hosting providers, or simply not upgrading to SQL Server 2014. 

The article digs deeper into the matter, highlighting that this move may not only benefits Microsoft's bottom line, but may perhaps also be a subtle push to move customers to Microsoft Azure Azure and away from traditional hosting companies. My take is that while it may be an exageration to claim monopolistic practices, since Miscrosoft is really just putting an end to an exploitation of its license by third parties to provide additional value using its their product, it goes to show that outsourcing Database management software is a decision that should not be taken lightly especially for an organisation with the means to consider alternative options. 